the risk of famine in Gaza is increasing
by the day the Grim assessment of a new
unbacked report that says almost the
entire population is facing a hunger
crisis the warning comes with the UN
Security Council expected to vote later
on a draft resolution that focuses on
the urgency of allowing much needed Aid
to enter Gaza a resolution that the US
says it is ready to support after days
of delay in New York and with starvation
now at catastrophic levels supplies of
food water and Medicine cannot come soon
enough for the people of
Gaza signs of starvation are not hard to
find in
Gaza here in Rafa crowds jostle for what
little food is
available the despair is
evident this war brought an unbearable
level of humiliation we struggle so much
just to provide lunch life has become so
expensive we do not eat drink or sleep
properly and nothing is
available a United Nations backed report
says more than 90% of people in Gaza are
facing crisis levels of
hunger a critical situation amid
Israel's Relentless bombardment in
response to the October 7th Hamas Terror
attacks
un agencies say gazin are getting just
10% of the food deliveries they would
usually receive people struggle to find
water medicine and fuel what is
happening in Gaza is
unprecedented both in terms of its scale
but also how quickly it is
happening you know in the world right
now there are about
130,000 people who are in catastrophic
levels of hunger meaning they are
starving in
Gaza more than half a million that is
four times more and that is what makes
this totally
unprecedented Israel did briefly allow
Aid through its Kim Shalom Crossing into
Gaza this week but an Israeli air strike
that hit the Palestinian side forced un
staff to stop its pickups
there we can still avoid this
family but we need to make sure that
people have food people have water they
have shelter they have
sanitation and for all of those things
to happen we need water Crossings open
so these Commodities can come
in the growing desperation for food also
means that the limited supplies that do
make it into Gaza are often seized upon
before being handed out
and the UN says it's not just access to
Aid that is vital but also its safe
distribution across the strip without it
they warn the risk of famine and Gaza is
increasing every day let's bring in t
yarich he's a spokesperson for the World
Health Organization one of the agencies
involved in putting together this report
Tark good to have you with us on DW now
this report paints a very Grim picture
just how unprecedented is the speed and
scale of this hunger crisis unfolding in
Gaza well what is really incredible is
how fast we got into this situation that
people do not have uh enough to eat it
just really in a matter of of weeks uh
because Gaza is is is is under sort of a
Siege where where what gets in is is
nowhere enough of of of what people in
Gaza normally would would have so so in
this quasi Siege situation we are
getting to the situation that that that
uh and we we are just we have been just
hearing from our colleagues on the
ground who are trying to bring medical
supplies uh to hospitals and what they
were saying that people would come to
trucks thinking uh that there and hoping
that there is a food uh in those tracks
uh uh and then our colleagues would say
no it's it's Medical supplies but but
everyone is desperate and even in the
hospitals our colleagues were saying
that all patients would just ask do you
have do you have some food for us so so
really the how fast we got into this
situation uh of of food crisis that
would obviously uh bring uh more uh uh
more suffering due to illnesses because
the combination of malnutrition and and
infectious diseases being spread is
lethal yeah t the US says it's now ready
to back a draft resolution at the UN to
help allow the delivery of more Aid into
Gaza in reality is that going to make
much of a difference on the
ground what we need is a ceasefire
ceasefire is the only solution because
as long as people are being bombed there
will be more casualties there will be
wounded people there will be dead people
wounded people who cannot get treatment
because there's less and less of Health
uh uh uh health facility capacity in
Gaza just bringing medical supplies will
not make uh hospitals function because
these hospitals need need access first
of all safety uh to to operate they need
also fuel food clean water they need uh
uh they need specialized stuff that is
no longer there so really ceas fire
first uh and then continues and an
unhindered access for all humanitarian
Goods without exception as long as the
fighting continues what options are left
for Gins to stay
healthy there are very little options
can you imagine a 50,000 pregnant women
in Gaza more than 300,000 people with
chronic diseases and increased uh spread
of respiratory viruses of waterborne uh
uh viruses of skin infections simply
because there is no water because clean
water because there is no uh hygiene
there is no sanitation so with every day
we we we see bombardment and we see this
Siege continuing more lives will be lost
really that the only solution is stop uh
this uh this suffering of people of Gaza
by ending hostilities that's tar garovic
of the wh many
thanks